---
layout: post
title: "Day 3 - Exploring GUIs"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

I initially wanted to use today to start exploring pygame for the purpose of learning how to attach play_2048() to the keyboard.

---

### What I Actually Did

After realizing I could not use pygame on Colab, I downloaded VS Code (Microsoft's coding software) and got to work trying to figure out pygame. I did a bunch of playing around with pygame, using window and keyboard events, but honestly it was all very difficult to understand, and after almost an hour trying to figure it out, I gave up. During my research I had heard tkinter, which I now decided to switch to because the Internet said it was more beginner-friendly and I had been afraid that I wouldn't be able to figure out pygame.

Tkinter was also quite difficult to figure out, and it took me several hours to start putting my code together. I incorporated the functions I had previously defined in my Colab notebook and put them in, before realizing that there wasn't a way for me to use the keyboard to call a function that included an argument. So, I had to define new functions with no argument, delete play_2048 (because those functions could no longer be called), incorporate the printing aspects of play_2048 into the new functions, and... it was a mess.

Finally, I was able to create something resembling the desired result. The output looks like what it should look like, and new_tile() is working properly. However, one problem I'm now having is that the 0s are no longer being properly handled; it looks like the code is just interpreting them as filled tiles, but only sometimes (even though I barely changed the functions that defined those). I'm still trying to figure out whether it's a problem with my print_board(), with my now global variable board, or with the new functions that call the old ones.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

Generally I learned a LOT about how to use tkinter. I'm still not an expert, evidenced by the fact that I cannot get the code to work properly, but I've gotten a solid understanding of how binding keys to functions works, at least. Additionally, the realization that pygame doesn't just work on Colab has also given me a better understanding of the way Python works (essentially, the code can't access the keys on your computer because the code is being executed online; at least, that's the understanding that I got from the Internet, which led me to download VS code). Speaking of which, I also learned how to use VS code, which I think is helpful in terms of learning how to use "real" Python interpreters that are capable of more things than a Jupyter notebook.

---

### What's Next

Tomorrow I'll be experimenting with tkinter and VS code further, in order to find where the bug is happening and why it happens, and to troubleshoot it until the code is functional!
