---
layout: post
title: "Day 5 - Finalizing My Code"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

Today I attempted to implement the function done() to determine whether the game was over or not. If so, the window will print "Game over!" along with the final score.

---

### What I Actually Did

I was able to, after many hours, finally implement done() - which seems sort of sad because the function is only 1 line. It appears finally that the secret is that once again, I needed to deepcopy board, as the function only started to work once I did so. At first I was flabbergasted, as the function only called left_move, right_move, up_move and down_move, all of which were supposed to deepcopy board in their own separate implementations. However, after a lot of digging I finally realized that left_move had actually modified board even after deepcopying it to initial_board, by calling board instead of initial_board. Finally, my code is done!

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

Today really taught me the importance of actually proofreading to make sure something you assume is true is actually true. I assumed left_move() correctly deepcopied the board, because in Colab I had deepcopied the board and used it correctly. Additionally, the whole game didn't work in Colab without correct deepcopying due to the variable "done" calling the functions without the user actually moving. Since my game worked in PyCharm and I had directly copied it over from Colab, I just assumed that I'd done it correctly in PyCharm as well. I didn't realize until now that because I had deleted done the variable, there was no more need for deepcopying in PyCharm, and so the incorrect use of deepcopying in left_move() didn't disturb the game **until I defined done() in the same way as I'd defined done the variable in Colab**. The incorrect copying of the code from Colab to PyCharm I'm not sure about the reason for, but I'm not too surprised about this as I modified the code a LOT in PyCharm; it's entirely possible I changed the variable for some other reason and then changed them all back except for one board that I missed in left_move(). Constantly making a lot of changes in your code may make testing unreliable or move things around in ways you won't remember several days after making the change, so it's important to proofread even the parts of the code you thought worked perfectly - because they might not work perfectly anymore now that you're introducing some new aspect elsewhere - and to keep copies of your functional code before modification for crossreferencing when you're really unsure of what's wrong.

### What's Next

I am now done with all of my coding for this project! Now I simply need to upload all the code to GitHub and write my "Tip" blog post.
