---
layout: post
title: "Day 4 - Creating My Game in PyCharm"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

Today I planned to create a functional 2048 game on PyCharm, incorporating input from the user's keyboard arrows.

---

### What I Actually Did

I was able to successfully create my 2048 game. I troubleshot the problem that had arisen yesterday, created a new function color() - which assigned different colors to different squares -- and implemented a score counter within the display window itself (so that the user can always see their score). It turned out that the problem yesterday arose due to a problem with the deepcopy. Essentially, in left() and right() I deepcopied board to initial_board and modified initial_board, before redefining board as left(board)[0] later; however, I accidentally directly modified board in up() and down(). After realizing this issue, I was able to fix it pretty easily.

To create different colors for the different tiles, I followed the model of the "real" 2048 game by assigning different colors up to 128, then one color from 128 to 2048, and then another color beyond 2048. I chose my own colors in order to make the game feel more personalized. Because the tiles had been buttons before this, and apparently Macs don't allow the background colors of buttons to be changed, the color assignment did not work until I realized this problem. I then redefined the tiles as labels (this made more sense anyway since there wasn't anything that happened when you clicked on the buttons) and was then able to change the background colors. I was also able to implement a score counter into my print_board() by creating a new label called scorelabel and destroying scorelabel every time the score changed (so that previous score no longer was showing).

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

The biggest thing I learned during my work today was more about how the tkinter display works and how to manipulate it using your code. At first I simply looked up guides to drawing labels and buttons online and essentially copied the code they put, but I didn't understand what many of the variables of the function were actually doing. In editing my score counter, my tiles and the position of the board for a more aesthetically pleasing display, I was able to figure out more about how to manipulate things in different ways and what each of the variables does. I was also able to fully grasp what tk.pack() actually does, as I had been unsure what it did until recently and only included the function because the code didn't print if I didn't.

---

### What's Next

Tomorrow is the day I originally assigned just for revising and polishing my code. Now that I'm here, I anticipate mainly using tomorrow to code a function for determining whether a player has reached 2048 (and then asking whether the player wants to continue playing) and a function for determining whether the game is no longer in progress (in which case a button would appear with the text "ok" and the system would exit the window). The reason why this seems so specific already is because I already tried, for many hours, to implement this but for some reason none of the approaches I tried worked. I will try and work on these functions, but if I run out of time tomorrow, I will simply leave the game as it is without those elements, instead leaving the player to self-determine when the game is over based on a lack of ability to move.

[What do you plan to tackle in the next stage of your project?]
