---
layout: post
title: "Final Post - Advice to Future CS Students"
---

## What’s One Thing You’d Tell Someone Starting This Course?

To anyone just beginning this course, my advice would be to start your assignments early, particularly the missions. Number one, it will be a huge burden off your shoulders once you're done with it. Secondly, you never really know how long the mission will take you (even if you skim over what you need to do, it's hard to predict how long it will take), so it's best to get it done sooner than later. Finally, starting early allows you to have the patience (like what Jennifer Roberts said) to take a break if you're stuck and come back to it later. In the long run, it may take you less time if you're able to do this.

## What Did You Learn That Might Stick With You?

This project taught me mainly that it is okay and often necessary for plans to change, or for your final result to not always perfectly mirror your initial vision. At the same time, I also learned that perseverance is important in coding to not give up when it seems like you might have to change something. For example, I did not think I would be able to code done() for many days, because I kept trying and wasn't able to -- but I finally did, because I was forced to work on *something* on Friday and didn't have anything else to fix. So there's a careful balance between knowing when something's not working and being persistant to obstacles.

## What Helped You Get Through Challenges?

I believe I'm pretty good at debugging. My strategy is always to identify which part of the code isn't working, isolate it in a new file, and to debug it there. If it works, then that means there's actually some other part of the code that isn't working. If they're all working properly, then there's some problem with the way they interact. Generally, with debugging, even when you feel really frustrated with your code, it's good to spend a lot of time experimenting patiently and logically, instead of changing something, assuming it will work now, and then crashing out every time it turns out there's a new issue (learned that the hard way). So my advice to others who are struggling with obstacles like something not working in your code is just to take a breather, maybe take a break to calm down, and return to your code with an open, patient mindset. It's like untying a tangled piece of embroidery floss - your experience is going to be heavily impacted by your mindset. Think of debugging as a relaxing, methodical process, rather than a frustrating one.

## What’s Next for You?

I believe the skills I've learned in this class can be applied to pretty much any other creative or academic pursuit, because the problem-solving skills and, frankly, anger management skills learned in this class are applicable universally. Personally, I'm not sure of any specific projects or goals that might especially utilized the knowledge I've gained from this course, but I'm sure that the soft skills learned here will be instrumental in many of my future pursuits without my consciously realizing. The hard skills of knowing Python have actually already come in handy in my life, as I've made use of them in my research-based independent study.
