---
layout: post
title: "Day 2 - Making My Game"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

Today was focused on implementing up(), down(), and right(), as well as combining all the functions in Colab into a playable text-based 2048 game -- essentially, doing everything I can do at the moment with the knowledge learned in class.

---

### What I Actually Did

I was able to successfully implement all four functions, as well as another function called new_tile(), which added a new 2 tile in a random spot (just as the "real" game does). I incorporated left() in both the implementations of both up() and right() -- in up() I switched the columns and rows, as we did in Level Up 2, and in right() I used multiple variable assignment to switch indexes 0 and 3 and indexes 1 and 2 (in order to flip the rows horizontally). In down(), I incorporated the column-row reversal as in up(), but instead of calling left() I called right() to switch the direction in which the tiles would be moving.

I implemented new_tile() after realizing I had forgotten about that feature of the game and used a while statement to keep looking at random indexes until one that was empty (0) was found. Then I assigned that index as 2. This effectively keeps the selection process for the new tile random, while also making sure that we're only adding new tiles in empty slots and aren't accidentally reassigning any actual tiles back to 2.

For the overall function, play_2048(), I was able to combine all these elements into a playable 2048 game, incorporating input(), a dictionary, and an if-elif-else statement to pull it all together.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

There was a lot of frustration on my end today, primarily because of one bug I couldn't for the life of me understand. I knew that lists are mutable, but I suppose I didn't fully grasp what that meant before this -- I found that left(), right(), etc. were actually altering the content of the original board, even if I didn't reassign board as those functions' returns. After realizing that lists' mutability meant that even if you're not redefining it, the list is going to change because it comes from the same ID, I used the method .copy() to make a new copy of the list.

To my chagrin, this still did not work. I was making copies, but the functions were still altering the original boards. Why? Eventually I did some digging on the Internet and discovered that the problem lay in the fact that my lists were all arrays -- i.e. nested lists. Apparently, even if you make a copy of a list, the nested lists inside that list is still coming from the same source and still possess the same IDs. Finally, after much frustration and confusion, I figured out that to make copies of the nested lists as well as the outer lists, I needed to import the module copy and use the function copy.deepcopy().

After figuring this out, I was deeply relieved and happy, and I also came away with a better understanding of what "mutability" actually means. In the beginning, I don't think I fully understood just how much alterations to a mutable object can extend back into your code, and I definitely didn't understand the nested lists thing. I definitely feel like I'm now better equipped for list manipulations and nested list manipulations, in addition to any other mutable data type!

---

### What's Next

Tomorrow I'm planning to start exploring pygame. I'll watch/read a couple tutorials on different ways to display games as well as how to incorporate the user's keyboard (specifically the arrow buttons, as opposed to just character buttons for strings (which I used today in input())) into Python code. From there, I'll explore the different options for how I can personally use pygame to turn my rudimentary-looking (though codically very complex, and functional!) text-based game into a fully fledged computer game with graphics to match.
